Review of Chapter 1 for the book "A Top-Down Approach to Networking"

Internet Basics (1.1)
---------------------

Network Edge: Clients, Server, Data Centers, End to End Users, Smartphones, Laptops, etc.
Access Networks and Physical Media: Allows hosts (end systems) to connect to the internet whether it be 1. Residential, 2. Institutional, 3. Mobile, etc.
Cable-Based Access: A single cable that connects all devices and homes to a cable head end.
Frequency Division Multiplexing: Different Channels transmitted in different frequency bonds.
DSL (Digital Subscriber Line): Uses existing telephone lines to central office DSLAM

Links: Physical Media
---------------------

Bits: Propogates between transmitters / reciever pairs
Physical Links: lies between transmitters and receivers
Guided Media: Signal propogate in said media (copper, fiber, coax)
Unguided Media: Signals propogate Freely (radios)

Netwok Core (1.2 - 1.3)
-----------------------

Packet Switching: Hosts break application-layer messages into packets
Network Forward: Packets from one router to the next, across links on path from source to destination
Forwarding: Packets move from router's input link to output link
Packet Queing: When there are too many packets, and the excess must wait
Packet Switching (part 2): Breaks down information into small packets which move independently on the network. Using the headers they gain from moving around, and their specific provided information
they are then reassembled at the destination.
Circuit Switching: There are dedicated communication paths (links) that are established between two devices.

Performance (1.4)
-----------------

Bandwith: Rate at which data is successfully transmitted from one point to another
Instantaneous: Rate of data transfer at a specific time 
Average: Average rate of successful data transfer

Latency: Time it takes for data to travel from sender to reciever

Processing Delay: Time taken by routers and switches to process the packet header
Queuing: Time a packet spends in queue before it can be sent
Propogation: Time it takes for the packet to propogate through the physical medium (Wired / Wireless) from sender to receiver

Round-Trip Time (RTT): Time it takes for a signal to travel from sender to receiver and back
Packet Loss: Packets are dropped due to congestion or errors.

Layering and Encapsulation (1.5)
--------------------------------

Layering: Allows an explicit structure which allows identification and the relationship to other system pieces
- This also eases matinence and updating systems (one service change won't affect the other services)

Internet Protocol Stack
-----------------------

Application: Supporting network applications (DNS, HTTP, IMAP, SMTP)
Transport: Process-process data transfer (from one destination to another). Uses TCP and UDP
Network: Routing of data grams from source to destination, (IP, Routing Protocols)
Link: Data transfer between teo similar network devices, (Ethernet, WiFi, PPP (Point to Point Protocol) ).
Physical: Bits "on the wire"

Encapsulation
-------------

The process of adding headers to data as it moves down the Internet Protocol Stack. Each layer addes its own header to the data which allows for it to be transmitted and understood successfully.

Networks Under Attack (1.6)
---------------------------

Packet "Sniffing" 
- Broadcast Media (Ethernet / Wireless)
- Promiscuous (lacking judgement) network interfaces reads / records all packets passing by
(Software tools such as WireShark allow for packet sniffing)

IP Spoofing: Injection of packet with false source destination (Using a fake "Sender" to trick the receiver)

DOS (Denial Of Service): Makes resources unavailable to legitimate traffic by overwhelming resource with false traffic

Line Of Defense
---------------

Authentification: Proving who you say you are (Using passwords, 2FA, Sim cards, etc.)
Confidentiality: Encryption (Digital Signatures)
Integrity Checks: Access Controls (specific people get specific permissions) as well as Digital Signatures
Access Restrictions: Password-Protected VPNS
Firewalls: Allows and blocks incoming and outcoming traffic.